Abstract
Human emotions like depression, sadness, happiness are inner sentiments of human beings which expose actual behaviors of a person. Analyzing and determining these types of emotions from people’s social activities in the virtual world can be very helpful to understand their behaviors. Existing approaches may be useful for analyzing common sentiments, such as positive, negative or neutral expressions. However, human emotions, such as depression, sadness, happiness are very critical and sometimes almost impossible to analyze using these approaches. In this work, we deployed Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) and Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) Recurrent Neural Networks for depression analysis on Bangla social media data. We created a small dataset of Bangla tweets and stratifed it. In this research work, we have shown the eﬀects of hyper-parameters tuning and how these can be helpful for depression analysis on a small Bangla social media dataset. After hyperparameters tuning, we applied 10 folds cross-validation on the best-tuned model of GRU and LSTM. After training, we compared the results of GRU and LSTM implementations. The results show that GRU and LSTM can be applied on the small dataset with proper hyper-parameters tuning. The result also shows that, GRU models perform better than LSTM on a small dataset. This result will help psychologists and other researchers to detect depression of individuals from their social activities in the virtual world and help them to take necessary measures to prevent undesirable doings resulted from depression.
